s#summary Corus Installation Procedure for Windows Vista

= Introduction =

This page will guide you through the necessary steps to install Corus on Windows Vista.


= 1. Preparing the environment =

== i) Java ==
 * Before installing Corus you need to have Java installed on your machine. Corus requires at least Java 5.
 * Corus requires the presence of the  JAVA_HOME environment variable that points to the Java runtime you want to use (JRE or JDK)

== ii) Installation directory ==
 * You need to create a directory on your system in which you will install Corus
 * For the purpose of this demonstration, we create the `C:\opt\sapia-corus` directory


= 2. Extract the corus distribution =
 * Extract the Corus distribution zip file into the Corus installation directory created above.
 * Rename the created root directory of the archive if you need.
 * For example, we extracted the zip and the files reside under the directory `C:\opt\sapia-corus\sapia_corus-2.0`

INSERT PICTURE 1 HERE!!!!

= 3. Configure environment =
 * To run properly, Corus requires the presence of another environment variable: CORUS_HOME
 * The variable must point to the home directory of the Corus installation, which in our case is the `C:\opt\sapia-corus\sapia_corus-2.0` directory
 * To define an environment variable on Windows Vista, follow these simple steps:
  # Go in Control Panel -> System and Maintenance -> System -> Advanced system settings
  # In the System Properties window, select the Advanced tab and click on the Environment Variables... button
  # Add a new system variable by clicking on the New... button in the bottom section (System Variables)
  # Define the CORUS_HOME variable with the appropriate value

INSERT PICTURE 2 HERE!!!!

 * You can also modify the *`Path`* environment variable to have an easy access to the various commands of the Corus distribution
 * To do so, select the *`Path`* variable in the System Properties windows, and click on Edit...
 * Append the following text to the parameter value field: "`;%CORUS_HOME%\bin`"

INSERT PICTURE 3 HERE!!!!

At this point you should be able to start Corus by manually invoking the `bin\corus.bat` file. However performing this task manually is cumbersome. The next section will guide you through the steps to register Corus as a Windows service.


= 4. Window service integration = 
With the installation of Corus as a Windows service, you will be able to automatically start Corus on startup of your machine. Windows provides a simple service management user interface to stop, start and restart services.

To register Corus as a service, you need to:
== i) Define a Corus configuration file ==
 * you need to define a Corus configuration file that will be used when the service starts.
 * We provide a default configuration file to help you: it is located under `config\corus_service_33000.wrapper.properties`. You can have a look at the configuration section to know how to customize Corus.

== ii) Prepare installation script ==
 * A script is available to register Corus as a Windows Service: it located under `bin\win32\InstallCorusService.bat`
 * Edit the script (or copy it under a different name) and set the configuration file name to the variable _WRAPPER_CONF.
 * By default, the `InstallCorusService.bat` is configured to use the `config\corus_service_33000.wrapper.properties` file (so can have a try right now).


== iii) Execute the installation script ==
 * ...